Who would have thought that both you and I would die so early?
Although not as early as your mother.
Father, I've always wanted to ask you something.
Why did someone like you, who was known as the White Fang of the Leaf
choose to ignore the village code
and abandon a crucial mission in order to save his comrades?
If you had not done so,
no one would have condemned you and you wouldn't have become so miserable.
I felt so bitter.
I see... You took it pretty hard, didn't you?
Yeah.
But you know, Father...
Whatever the outcome, I know you did your best.
I can see that now and I understand you.
You broke the code to save everyone. And I'm proud of you for it.
Thank you.
What is that?!
What is that light?!
Ma? Where am I?
- Whoa! - What's going on, Guy Sensei?
I see!
Lord Fukasaku was definitely dead!
And yet... What just happened?!
I-Impossible! How can such a thing occur?!
What's going on?
Iruka Sensei!
- You're alive! - You too, Sensei!
Ebisu Sensei, are you hurt?
This is nothing.
Konohamaru saved me.
But never mind my injury. What is this phenomenon?
Yes...
What in the world?!
It seems Naruto has settled things.
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Hero of the Hidden Leaf
What? What just happened?!
The villagers are coming back to life, one after another.
What?! You mean...
I'll stay here and look after them for a while.
Just until they can take better care of themselves.
It's the least I can do.
I'm still in time to revive those I've killed since arriving in the Leaf Village.
It's the least I can do for them.
What's this?
Seems it was too soon for you to come here.
There must be something you're still meant to do.
Father... I'm glad we got to talk.
Thank you for forgiving me.
Now I can move on in peace.
I'll finally be able to see your mother.
- Pa! - Yes.
Kakashi too, eh?
What's going on?
Thank goodness! I'm so glad, Kakashi Sensei!
I will explain everything.
You...
War inflicts death, injury, and pain to both sides.
The death of someone dear is hard to accept.
We convince ourselves there's no way they could die.
It especially can't be helped with your generation.
You don't know war.
You may try to find meaning in death, but there is only pain.
An unbearable hatred...
Senseless deaths...
Eternal hatred... And pain that does not heal.
That's what war is.
Naruto... This is what you will be facing in time.
Regarding that book, and you...
It feels like someone set it up.
Or... Perhaps this is the real work of a god.
It seems my work ends here, Naruto.
I believe you can bring true peace.
You're taking this one with you too?
Yes... Tendo Pain was created from Yahiko's body.
He is very precious to us.
So he was...Yahiko.
So what are you going to do?
I hate to think that you're returning to the Akatsuki.
I'm leaving the Akatsuki.
Yahiko and Nagato meant everything to me.
Yahiko's dream...
And Nagato's dream...
If both of their dreams have been passed on to you,
then you now embody their dreams.
Nagato put his faith in you. So will I.
We, the Hidden Rain, will pursue their dreams with you.
If I can't find the answer, perhaps I'll entrust you to find it!
I think I shall believe in you... Naruto Uzumaki.
The name Naruto, the guts to never give up, and pain.
That's what I inherited from my teacher and sibling disciple!
This time...
I pray that you will be the blossom of hope that never wilts.
Just you watch, Master!
MASTER TALES OF A GUTSY NINJA
Good job.
Kakashi Sensei... Just lean on me.
He's gotten heavy.
Hmm?
Welcome back!
We knew you could do it!
They've all been awaiting your return.
My dream is to surpass the Hokage!
And make everyone in the village acknowledge me!
Naruto... You did well.
Welcome back!
Naruto!
Wh-What's going on?
I relayed every detail of the events that occurred.
Hey! What was the enemy like?
Are you hurt?
Oww! Don't push!
I'm so glad, Naruto.
Hey! Cut it out!
Sakura... You're so reckless, you idiot!
Thank you.
Way to go, Naruto.
Yes! That's what youth is!
I can't believe he pulled it off all by himself.
Uh-huh... I could almost fall for him.
- Huh?! - Huh?!
Ain't he something, that Naruto.
That's my classmate!
He really outclassed us.
Shut up. We'll make it up starting now!
Let's join them, Iruka Sensei!
No, I'm fine right here.
- But... - Now, now...
Naruto is amazing, isn't he?
At first, everyone thought he was such a nuisance, including myself.
We feared his destiny, so we kept him at arm's length
and didn't bother with him.
That fox kid shouldn't become a ninja!
What is the Third Hokage thinking?!
That Team Kakashi...
I heard they defeated the terrorist Zabuza!
Sounds like the Nine-Tails kid had a part in it...
No way... I heard he was a loser.
I bet it was Kakashi's doing.
I hear that Nine-Tails kid made it to the Finals of the Chunin Exam.
Are you serious?! He's more skilled than I thought.
Humph! I just hope the fox demon doesn't go on a rampage.
Oh!
That's that fox kid?
I can't believe he won against a Hyuga.
That was an awesome match!
I never expected such a battle from the fox kid.
He's quite a boy.
However, he never ever gave up.
And he stayed true to his Ninja Way.
And slowly, but surely we couldn't help but acknowledge him.
D-Da...
Damn it!
I heard he protected the village from the Sand Jinchuruki!
Who did?
Naruto Uzumaki. You know, the one...
I'm so glad the Fifth Hokage has been decided!
We can breathe a little easier now.
Thanks to Lord Jiraiya and Naruto!
Is it true they fought Orochimaru?
I heard they couldn't bring Sasuke Uchiha back.
I hope Naruto isn't too depressed.
A group named the Akatsuki is after the Jinchuriki.
Which means Naruto will also be targeted.
Will he be okay?
Lord Jiraiya will look out for Naruto.
I heard that Naruto rescued the Sand's Kagekaze from the Akatsuki!
Wouldn't it be great if this results in an alliance between the Leaf and Sand?
The Akatsuki has killed Lord Jiraiya!
Is Naruto all right?!
Naruto has Lord Jiraiya's determination!
He hasn't lost heart!
He'll keep on going, like always!
Today, everyone trusts Naruto implicitly.
They worry about him, have high hopes for him and pray for him.
He truly changed the hearts of many people.
It's because he did his best.
Iruka... Yes, Lord Hokage?
I agree with you to a point, but he is just like you.
He never knew parental love
and because of that incident, people avoided him.
So in order to get attention, he resorted to mischief.
In whatever shape or form,
he desperately wanted to validate his existence and his worth.
The Fourth Hokage wanted the villagers to regard Naruto as a hero.
He placed the seal and died hoping for that.
Third Hokage... Fourth Hokage...
There is a hero right before our eyes.
When the fireworks suddenly explode in the air...
fui ni agatta hanabi wo futari de miageta toki
I couldn't keep my eyes off from your face...
muchuu de miteru kimi no kao wo
sotto nusumimita no I gazed at you quietly...
It'd be so much easier if I was able to hate you...
kimi no koto kirai ni naretara ii noni
Because I always remember you, in situations like this...
kyou mitai na hi ni wa kitto
I can't help but think about the times we spent together.
mata omoidashiteshimau yo
I'm ready to forget you...
mou wasureyou kimi no koto zenbu
It just tears at my heart too much.
konna ni mo kanashikute
I wonder... why did we meet each other?
doushite deatteshimattan darou When I close my eyes...
me wo tojireba It's like you are here.
ima mo kimi ga soko ni iru you de
Me, as Naruto's homeroom teacher? Please let me think about this.
As you can see, everyone is troubled by Naruto's mischief.
No one wants to take him.
But sir...
One cannot become a ninja unless they graduate from the academy!
If Naruto cannot get a teacher,
then I have no choice but to have him leave the academy.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Rookie Instructor Iruka"
That child, of all things.
Tune in again!